# Expedition-Plaza
A `Smart Billing approach` for grocery stores on the basis of an **Embedded device (Prototype)** constructed from various electronic components and **software programming**.

Shopping is really fascinating and alluring; at the same time, it involves getting tired due to standing in a _long queue for the bill and payment process_. Hence, we proposed to design a **smart trolley which can take care of shopping and billing**. By this, the customer can walk straightaway into the shop, purchase products using the smart trolley and walk to the billing counter. Here the bill of all the purchased items of the customer will be ready so customer need to pay his bill and leave the market, and the customer during his purchase can his bill by entering his phone number using _Keypad included in the deisgn of Embedded Device_ while taking the trolley. In order to realize this, we need an **ESP32 board, Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) reader, RFID tag , database manager and a Application** to maintain product and customer details, which can be accessed by the admin anywhere in the world. This is an **IOT based** system where the trolley can interact with the network spread worldwide.

Here the `main reason of using RFID` is that, the use of RFID technology is increasing very drastically. According the survey we have looked into the use of RFID technology has increased around 18% from 2018 to 2019 and 25% from 2019 to 2020. So, in coming years it is going to increase much more. Thus, in the coming times the grocery products which get manufactured with barcode on them will get manufactured with Edible RFID tags on them, that is barcodes will be replaced with RFID tags such that these get scanned easily and quickly and these tags doesn’t have alignment problems unlike barcode. So, some amount of time will be saved near the billing using this RFID technology. So, in order to provide much more flexibility to customer instead of the traditional billing at counters, here in our idea the billing will be done as the customer puts the required item the trolley and his bill will be getting updated in the database of supermarket for every item the customer puts in the trolley thus after customer gathers all required items, he/she just need to reach the billing counter and specify their phone number which they will provide at the beginning while taking trolley such that their bill gets generated from database.

The main purpose of supermarkets is to provide availability of all the products and save the time of the customers, but sometimes **customer gets frustrated while waiting in the queue at billing counter and sometimes**, they get confused while comparing the total price of all the products with the budget in the pocket before billing.

`So, in this project, we created a hardware prototype by combining various electronic components and software. In addition to the hardware prototype, we created a sample software executable that can be used at billing counters to retrieve specific customer bill details using their provided mobile number. This sample software executable was created in Python with the help of additional modules, and the database used in this case is Firebase.`

Check [Prototype_Schematic.jpg](https://github.com/pawar-ashwin/Expedition-Plaza/blob/c8225321261d09635e04718d0657510bfde0f107/Prototype_Schematic.jpg) file for Prototype Schematic and all Electronic Component Connections.
Check `Prototype_Workng_Process.md` file to understand the working of Prototype and Flow of project.

